[DOCS-3324] Document agent dual shipping features (#13371)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/dual-shipping.md

---
title: Dual Shipping
kind: guide
---

<div class="alert alert-danger">
Dual shipping can impact billing if you are sending data to multiple Datadog orgs. For more information about the impact of this configuration, contact <a href="/help/">Datadog Support</a>.
</div>

## Overview

If you wish to send data to more than one destination such as a second Datadog org or other internal infrastructure - you can configure the Agent to send data to additional endpoints. Most data sent from the Agent supports multiple endpoints or API keys.

> ## Agent Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metrics/APM/Live Processes/Orchestrator
```

### YAML configuration
In `datadog.yaml` 
```yaml
additional_endpoints:
  "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
  - apikey2
  - apikey3
  "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
  - apikey4
```

### Environment Variable configuration

```bash
DD_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}

<!-- APM -->
{{% tab "APM" %}}

### YAML configuration
In `datadog.yaml` 
```yaml
apm_config:
  [...]
  additional_endpoints:
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4

  profiling_additional_endpoints:
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4
```

### Environment Variable configuration

```bash
DD_APM_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'

DD_APM_PROFILING_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}

<!-- Process Agent -->

> {{% tab "Process Agent" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Live Processes" %}}
```

### YAML configuration
In `datadog.yaml` 
```yaml
process_config:
  [...]
  additional_endpoints:
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4
```

### Environment Variable configuration

```bash
DD_PROCESS_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}

<!-- Orchestrator -->
{{% tab "Orchestrator" %}}

### YAML configuration
In `datadog.yaml` 
```yaml
orchestrator_explorer:
  [...]
  orchestrator_additional_endpoints:
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4
```

### Environment Variable configuration

```bash
DD_ORCHESTRATOR_EXPLORER_ORCHESTRATOR_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

You can add the yaml configuration to your `datadog.yaml` or launch the agent with the appropriate environment variables. 

> ## Logs and Events

Reviewer: Logs/DBM/[...]

DD_DATABASE_MONITORING_ACTIVITY_USE_HTTP=true
DD_DATABASE_MONITORING_ACTIVITY_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS="[{\"api_key\": \"apiKey2\", \"Host\": \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\", \"Port\": 443, \"is_reliable\": true}]"
DD_DATABASE_MONITORING_METRICS_USE_HTTP=true
DD_DATABASE_MONITORING_METRICS_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS="[{\"api_key\": \"apiKey2\", \"Host\": \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\", \"Port\": 443, \"is_reliable\": true}]"
```

{{% /tab %}}

<!-- Network Devices -->
{{% tab "Network Devices" %}}

### YAML configuration 
In `datadog.yaml` 
```yaml
network_devices:
  metadata:
    use_http: true
    additional_endpoints:
    - api_key: "apiKey2"
      Host: "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com"
      Port: 443
      is_reliable: true
```

### Environment Variable configuration

```bash
DD_NETWORK_DEVICES_METADATA_USE_HTTP=true
DD_NETWORK_DEVICES_METADATA_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS="[{\"api_key\": \"apiKey2\", \"Host\": \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\", \"Port\": 443, \"is_reliable\": true}]"
```

{{% /tab %}}

<!-- Compliance -->

> {{% tab "Compliance" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "CSPM" %}}
```

### YAML configuration 
In `datadog.yaml` 
```yaml
​​compliance_config:
  endpoints:
    use_http: true
    additional_endpoints:
    - api_key: "apiKey2"
      Host: "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com"
      Port: 443
      is_reliable: true
```

### Environment Variable configuration

```bash
DD_​​COMPLIANCE_CONFIG_ENDPOINTS_USE_HTTP=true
DD_​​COMPLIANCE_CONFIG_ENDPOINTS_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS="[{\"api_key\": \"apiKey2\", \"Host\": \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\", \"Port\": 443, \"is_reliable\": true}]"
```

{{% /tab %}}

<!-- Runtime Security -->

> {{% tab "Runtime Security" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "CWS" %}}
```

  [...]
  additional_endpoints:
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4
```

### Environment variable configuration

```bash
DD_PROCESS_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Orchestrator" %}}

### YAML configuration
In `datadog.yaml`: 
```yaml
orchestrator_explorer:
  [...]
  orchestrator_additional_endpoints:
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4
```

### Environment variable configuration

```bash
DD_ORCHESTRATOR_EXPLORER_ORCHESTRATOR_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}} 

## Logs, Database Monitoring, Network Devices, CSPM, Runtime Security

For data from these products, when setting up additional endpoints, you must explicitly set `use_http` to tell the Agent which transport to use. The same transport configuration is shared among all additional endpoints.

> The `is_reliable` setting tells the Agent to treat this endpoint with the same priority as the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint is always reliable. The `is_reliable` setting ensures that logs are not missed if a destination becomes unavailable. 

Author: That's how I originally formatted it - [but it was moved in the editing pass](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/13371/commits/37c0cdc336a6a5bf2fba9a6aabdcb3a9fe129593). 

@hestonhoffman what do you think?

> The `is_reliable` setting tells the Agent to treat this endpoint with the same priority as the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint is always reliable. The `is_reliable` setting ensures that logs are not missed if a destination becomes unavailable. 

Reviewer 2: @gh123man Yep, no problem. We can move it back to below the config

For example, if you're sending logs to the main endpoint and an additional endpoint with `is_reliable: true` and one endpoint becomes unavailable, logs continue to flow to the other endpoint. If both endpoints become unavailable, the Agent stops reading and sending logs until at least one endpoint recovers. This ensures all logs make it to at least one reliable endpoint.

> The `is_reliable` setting defaults to `false`. Unreliable endpoints only send logs if at least one reliable endpoint is available. You may define multiple additional endpoints with mixed use of `is_reliable`.

Reviewer: I'd add a recommendation to use `is_reliable: true`:
```suggestion
The `is_reliable` setting defaults to `false`, and is recommended to be set to `true`. Unreliable endpoints only send logs if at least one reliable endpoint is available. You may define multiple additional endpoints with mixed use of `is_reliable`.
```

> 

Reviewer: For clarity I think we should repeat here:

```suggestion

You can add the YAML configuration to your `datadog.yaml` or launch the Agent with the appropriate environment variables.

```

    - api_key: "apiKey2"
      Host: "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com"
      Port: 443
      is_reliable: true
```

### Environment variable configuration

```bash
DD_​​COMPLIANCE_CONFIG_ENDPOINTS_USE_HTTP=true
DD_​​COMPLIANCE_CONFIG_ENDPOINTS_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS="[{\"api_key\": \"apiKey2\", \"Host\": \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\", \"Port\": 443, \"is_reliable\": true}]"
```

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "CWS" %}}

### YAML configuration 
In `datadog.yaml`: 
```yaml
runtime_security_config:
  endpoints:
    use_http: true
    additional_endpoints:
    - api_key: "apiKey2"
      Host: "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com"
      Port: 443
      is_reliable: true
```

### Environment variable configuration

```bash
DD_​​RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENDPOINTS_USE_HTTP=true
DD_​​RUNTIME_SECURITY_CONFIG_ENDPOINTS_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS="[{\"api_key\": \"apiKey2\", \"Host\": \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\", \"Port\": 443, \"is_reliable\": true}]"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}}

For data from these products, when setting up additional endpoints, you must explicitly set `use_http` to tell the Agent which transport to use. The same transport configuration is shared among all additional endpoints.

> The `is_reliable` setting tells the Agent to treat this endpoint with the same priority as the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint is always reliable. The `is_reliable` setting ensures that logs are not missed if a destination becomes unavailable. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `is_reliable` setting tells the Agent to treat this endpoint with the same priority as the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint is always reliable. This ensures that logs are not missed if a destination becomes unavailable. 
```

For example, if you're sending logs to the main endpoint and an additional endpoint with `is_reliable: true` and one endpoint becomes unavailable, logs continue to flow to the other endpoint. If both endpoints become unavailable, the Agent stops reading and sending logs until at least one endpoint recovers. This ensures all logs make it to at least one reliable endpoint.

> The `is_reliable` setting defaults to `false`, and is recommended to be set to `true`. Unreliable endpoints only send logs if at least one reliable endpoint is available. You may define multiple additional endpoints with mixed use of `is_reliable`.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `is_reliable` setting defaults to `false`. We recommended you set `is_reliable` to `true`. Unreliable endpoints only send logs if at least one reliable endpoint is available. You may define multiple additional endpoints with mixed use of `is_reliable`.

```

    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.com":
    - apikey2
    - apikey3
    "https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu":
    - apikey4
```

### Environment variable configuration

```bash
DD_ORCHESTRATOR_EXPLORER_ORCHESTRATOR_ADDITIONAL_ENDPOINTS='{\"https://mydomain.datadoghq.com\": [\"apikey2\", \"apikey3\"], \"https://mydomain.datadoghq.eu\": [\"apikey4\"]}'
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% /tabs %}} 

## Logs, Database Monitoring, Network Devices, CSPM, Runtime Security

For data from these products, when setting up additional endpoints, you must explicitly set `use_http` to tell the Agent which transport to use. The same transport configuration is shared among all additional endpoints.

The `is_reliable` setting tells the Agent to treat this endpoint with the same priority as the primary endpoint. The primary endpoint is always reliable. The `is_reliable` setting ensures that logs are not missed if a destination becomes unavailable. 

For example, if you're sending logs to two reliable endpoints and one becomes unavailable, logs continue to flow to the second reliable endpoint. If both endpoints become unavailable, the logs stop flowing until at least one endpoint recovers.

> The `is_reliable` setting defaults to `false`. Unreliable endpoints only send logs if they successfully send to at least one reliable endpoint. You may define multiple additional endpoints with mixed use of `is_reliable`. 

Reviewer 2: Could you clarify this, or rephrase? It's not super clear.

Author: I tried to clarify as best I could. It's a complicated behavior so it's difficult to summarize in simple terms. Let me know if this is better.
